i realize that the supporters of faith
goldie
are likely to close this video after
just the first few seconds
and so it is in the first few seconds
that i'm rushing
to show you this simple map and these
few statistics
before i get into a more nuanced and
balanced discussion of the underlying
issues
in the bottom right corner of your
screen right now you see the percentage
of canada's current population comprised
of first nations peoples faith goldie
has stated with no irony
that she does not want to be a minority
in her own country i know you've said
that you don't want to be
you don't wish to be a minority in your
own country i respect that i don't want
to be either
i don't think that's controversial faith
goldie
is half greek and half ukrainian
canada in a very real sense
is not her own country and
never will be and in a very
real sense the cree
the ojibwe the inuit
the dene the mohawk
the native peoples of canada have indeed
become minorities in their own
country in fact as you can see here
there are more chinese people in canada
than all indigenous peoples combined
they're outnumbered by the chinese
and they're pretty much neck and neck
with east indians
and ukrainians below 5
faith goldie is asking the audience
to sympathize with her with her plight
as a white woman who's supposedly afraid
of becoming an ethnic minority in her
own country
when it isn't her country at all
faith the question i have to ask you
just now
just in kicking off this video just in
opening up what is indeed
a more complex conversation in which i
also
am critical of the far left which i also
am
critical of both multicultural policy
immigration policy
all the peculiar qualities of both left
and right wing views of these things
but let's open with a very simple and
frank admission
that if the audience is supposed to
sympathize with faith goldie
we must by the same token demand of her
that she takes seriously the position
that first nations are in
when they have indeed become a minority
in their homeland i'm a realist uh that
that's all it is uh you look around the
wild and you realize everyone's acting
like a group
if you're gonna act as an individual
you're gonna get eaten alive right so we
need to have a little bit of
collectivism within our politics
i think in group preference which is
actually psychologically
sociologically natural right
you see it in birds you see it in humans
and europeans have through the
enlightenment and the cancerous thought
that came therein
um had that bread outside of them and
now they're being prayed on
as a collective but still continue to
act as individuals and it will
lead to not only our psychological
demise but also i mean
where is the white supremacy when every
single european nation is about to see
whites become
a a minority basically within the next
40 years and we're already a minority in
the major cities like the future is
already here in terms of vancouver
toronto montreal and all that
whether or not the use of immigration
statistics by the far-right
and white nationalists is fear-mongering
depends entirely on what it is that
you're afraid of
these are official government of canada
projections but i reiterate
projections so they are estimates with a
range of possible outcomes
for the year 2036. the rest of the
population
in quotation marks which i have to
assume means white people
is between 69 and 64
of the total whereas so-called visible
minorities
31 to 36 percent now the pie chart does
not add up to the same total
and i did indeed type in all the data
myself
using the pdf the government report i'd
assume that's
an old-fashioned rounding error because
the numbers were indeed all rounded off
but um whether we're talking about
69 71 or what have you what you'll look
for in vain
in this pie chart is a slice for our
indigenous peoples
arab right where where are the cree
where the ojibwe where the mohawk
where where are the dna on this chart
and where is the concern for their
future
in canada no i'm not one for conspiracy
theories so i have to give the canadian
government the benefit of the doubt here
but it is a peculiar fact that the uh
indigenous peoples of canada are
ethnically cleansed from this report
that is indeed dealing with the future
of canada's ethnic
diversity and um they're addressed
instead
in a separate report now in that second
report that you can also
find as a pdf on the internet it's
projected that they'll be above
five percent of the population in 2036
they put the most likely scenario at 5.8
percent i wonder though if it wasn't a
strategic decision
to separate the math into those two
separate reports
so that we wouldn't have the unseemly
contrast
between the enormous and growing numbers
of
south asians in canada south asia
being india pakistan and sri lanka
um and the diminishing role
of the minority of canadians for whom
this is
their home and native land who needs
national identity when you have
post-national
values seriously though think about
these post-national values just for a
second
if our culture is to celebrate
multiculture then we are in effect
saying that our culture
is all the cultures and therefore no
culture in particular
we are in effect saying that our values
are
all the values and therefore no values
in particular
we are in effect saying that our land is
a land for
all the people and therefore no people
in particular
some people say that even a broken watch
is right twice a day
i don't even know faith goalie faith
gold maybe she's right
maybe once a day i don't know she can't
she can't possibly
be wrong about everything um the
questions she's raising
about shall we say the semiotic
significance of multiculturalism
those are questions of real urgency in
the year 2018
and i think they're only going to become
more urgent why
not because of the vocal minority of
white nationalists
of softcore neo-nazis of people
promoting the idea of an ethnostate
i think these questions have become more
important than ever
before because simply neoliberalism
is going out of style neoliberalism in
its early period
more commonly referred to as
neoconservatism a remarkable
reinvention of an economic theory from i
don't know one part of the mainstream
political spectrum to the other
from neoconservatism to neoliberalism
topic for another video
um neoliberalism actually presented a
wildly
new and foreign attitude towards
immigration policy
and it boiled down to this recipient
nations like canada and england were in
a position to profit
from the third world by importing
skilled
labor who would arrive in those
countries already educated
i.e who would arrive in canada having
already gone through medical school
in india they would arrive in canada as
a fully qualified medical doctor
for example or for example a nurse from
the philippines
who's already gone through all of her
years of schooling and education
would arrive in canada and i think it
has to be said in the early period
especially in the united kingdom and
europe
there was also the expectation that many
of these people would
earn money in england and canada or what
have you and then return
to their country of origin one
influential example of this as the
legacy of the british empire was
actually england's interaction with
nepal
so large numbers of nepalese migrants
would come to england earn money and
then return to nepal
in their old age nepal is hardly the
only example
and when you do the math this is an
almost parasitic economic relationship
between the first world and the third
world
when you add up all those millions of
dollars that go into taxes
it's unbelievable just how much is being
spent by the government on you
on the years before you enter the
workforce and
after you leave the workforce and then
they only get to
milk you for tax dollars during those
relatively few years
where you're a productive tax paying
member of the workforce now especially
if you talk about
skilled workers architects medical
doctors nurses
it may sound like i'm joking here but no
it might be 20 the first 25 years of
your life
when you're spending taxpayers dollars
on healthcare education etc
and maybe the last 25 or more years your
life people live for a long time now
when you're in the hospital receiving
nursing and what have you
and uh by cutting out those costs
by recruiting uh labor immigrant labor
from
well basically from anywhere outside
your own country not necessarily the
third world but it often is
countries like canada and the united
kingdom stood to gain
this was in the government's interest
short term and long term to have a
perpetual
influx of skilled labor
first things last however the big
fundamental shift
in economics and politics which was seen
throughout the neoliberal world
even in countries like japan that
actually remained
opposed to mass immigration both they're
both opposed to the immigration of
skilled labor and to
cheap low salaried labor um
was the idea that it was in the
government's interest to undercut
the wages of workers at all levels that
it was in the government's interests and
society the whole
to discard what had become popularized
as the virtuous cycle
of keynesian economics so stick with me
over one second this actually does come
back to
racism ethnicity and these more
salacious themes that we're discussing
in this video
um john maynard keynes but not john
maynard keynes
only profound propounded and popularized
the view
that what countries ought to do is to
put themselves in
a virtuous cycle of ever increasing
productivity which is say people
um accomplishing more with the same
number of hours of labor
ever increasing wages rewarding them for
their productivity
and moving up what's called the value
ladder
moving up the ladder from cheap easily
manufactured products to ever more
sophisticated and exclusive products
so the issue here being if japan
can't compete with thailand in providing
the cheapest labor
japan will naturally tend to stop
manufacturing
cheap easily manufactured products and
will go more and more into
specialized high-end goods and indeed
you see this if you even compare today
the economy of italy to the economy of
china they manufacture purses
in china they also manufacture purses in
italy
they're not the same purses italians
manage to sell handmade purses for a
thousand dollars
or more and you can get a handmade purse
from china i don't know 60 bucks
um and yet they're both competing on the
free market
at very different ends of this spectrum
and with very very different wages being
paid to the laborers and the factories
that manufacture the purses that's an
extraordinary example because it's
exactly the same product
but by the same token you can have a
situation where
partly because japan can't compete with
lower wages in third world countries
japan and other high salaries high tech
countries that
have ever more of an incentive to
specialize in say manufacturing
aircraft because they maybe
increasingly can't compete with
manufacturing bicycles
but there was indeed a time when japan
could export bicycles
to mainland china and then that time
comes to an end
when china is manufacturing more and
more of its own bicycles etc
so this was the fundamental cycle of
economics
and it led to all kinds of ideas in
terms of social planning
for conservatives and liberals alike
like the general sense that
labor unions were a good thing that when
people got organized had a labor union
and demanded higher wages
they were doing something positive for
society as a whole
under neoliberalism even in japan where
they refused to admit large numbers of
immigrants
governments started to take on the
opposite mentality in the period when
margaret thatcher was in power in
england
and ronald reagan in the united states
governments started to believe was in
their best interests
to not just crack down on labor unions
which again the japanese did a great
deal of by the way
um but to actively import laborers at
all levels of society skilled laborers
like doctors
and architects um the workers who you
see at walmart the workers who you see
behind the the desk at tim hortons
people selling coffee
totally unskilled laborers up to the
highest skilled laborers
and to do this not despite the fact that
it would lower wages
for workers born and raised in canada or
born and raised in england this case
might be
but because of that fact because they
started to see it as in their best
interest
to drive down the cost of labor
because they saw themselves not as being
on a virtuous cycle of moving up the
ladder of value to manufacturing
more and more high-tech more and more
valuable services devices etc or even if
it's the same product like a purse
moving up the ladder of value to make
better and better purses so you're not
really directly competing with china to
make the cheapest purse
you're making the most desirable
designer purse etc
instead the neoliberal view of the
economy
was precise to try to drive down the
cost of labor
to remain competitive with
well whatever the market will bear the
lowest
cheapest wages you can get and you see
the impacts of this
across the united states and canada this
idea became tremendously powerful
tremendously popular
and it was in many ways the engine
behind um
i don't know the ideological veneer of
multiculturalism
now i've said in other videos in the
past and i still mean it today
from the perspective of indigenous first
nations people in canada
multiculturalism is really a code word
for genocide
and it's really somewhat pathetic to see
far right wing thinkers like faith
goldie
in as much as they can be called
thinkers trying to co-opt this
in the name of hysteria over a
quote-unquote white genocide
clearly this does not threaten the
position of the white majority
not even in the government projections
i've just shown you for the year 2036.
um i think what it does threaten though
is worth discussing here
briefly one if we were to take
some of the fear-mongering statistics
presented by white nationalists
if we were to look at the possibility
that in the future canada would be
80 non-white if we were to look at that
future
i think it's worth reflecting who is it
that considers that future
desirable what is it that's we're trying
to accomplish
whether we're sleepwalking into this
change or consciously electing and
pursuing it
and it's easier to think this through if
you were to look at another culture that
you may not be
so fond of that you may not be attached
to
i don't know anyone who goes on vacation
to saudi arabia
i know a lot of people go on vacation at
thailand and
in a simple sense we all know why that
is
now let's think through constructively
if we wanted to profoundly and
permanently change
the culture of saudi arabia if we wanted
to make it more
moderate more cosmopolitan more open and
receptive to new ideas
how could we really achieve that
non-violently
one of the easiest most reliable ways
would indeed be through
mass immigration and multiculturalism i
think if you can set aside your
particular attachment
to whatever you imagine as being
canadian culture
you can probably see that whether it's
or 60 or what have you or sorry as
according to the canadian projections i
don't know more like 40
if you really do have a significant
number
of new people coming in from other
cultures and other traditions
it's going to challenge and it's going
to change the traditional culture of the
people in that place
and it's open to discuss whether or not
it will change it for the better
i think probably anyone who is watching
this video right now it's very unlikely
that a
muslim fundamentalist saudi arabian
nationalist is going to
watch this video almost anyone watching
this video would probably be open to the
possibility
that saudi arabia would improve if
20 of their population in the future
were new immigrants from latin america
if 20 percent were immigrants from
western europe
maybe they had 20 percent of immigrants
from china some mix
if they suddenly had a massively
cosmopolitan culture of people
living in their country and to some
extent
learning and responding to their customs
and to some extent adapting them
if you look at canadian multiculturalism
from that perspective
i think it has to be acknowledged there
is some
political basis for the white majority
of canadians
responding to their own sense of
dissatisfaction with their own culture
by wanting to take this i don't know
gradual and non-violent path towards
transforming
what canada is and what canada is
supposed to be
now what percentage of people
today or more importantly in the year
2036 in the near future
really sincerely believe and embrace
that what percentage of people
really see multiculturalism as a
positive
transformation with the country and from
my perspective
it's even more important to ask how do
the cree and the ojibwe and the dene
feel about it
conversely what percentage of people
have completely
cynically embraced multiculturalism
out of the ill-founded assumption that
canada
is somehow so technologically superior
that other countries that migrate to
this country
sorry other cultures that migrate to
canada will just somehow be
overwhelmed with awe at how great canada
is
and will then want to assimilate into it
seamlessly
definitely in both western europe and in
colonies like
canada and australia there was a false
assumption that the people arriving on
this shore
would come from far often distant lands
where their sense of their own cultural
identity
the sense of the value of their own
language and cultural traditions was so
weak
that as soon as they arrived in whether
it's canada australia or england
they would be very eager to assimilate
now i find that
you know a strange self-serving delusion
in many ways
i don't think that for example by
contrast
the government of egypt imagines that
people who are
migrating to egypt which is an
interesting factor are so overwhelmed by
the sight of the pyramids
that they want to become ardent and
passionate egyptians
and yet here in canada we have no
pyramids
we have no great accomplishments of that
kind
on the contrary what we have is a sense
of aimless collective guilt
for the fact that we have a paper thin
layer of european
culture laid over
what we all know is a shameful history
of cultural genocide
we don't have the kind of messisto
culture that they have in mexico
we don't have a hybrid culture of
indigenous people
intermarrying with europeans and to some
extent
preserving and promulgating elements of
their own culture
intermixed with european ideas and
technology um and we don't have an
ancient continuous culture
such as well okay credit where it's due
thailand and cambodia might have
what is the tradition that we're
supposed to be enticing
other people to adapt to and embrace and
that i think
that is the one sense in which this
broken wristwatch
in which someone like faith j goalie she
at least gets to be right
once a day she's here questioning
what does it mean to be a multicultural
country to open the doors wide and say
this land is your land to the whole wide
world
and to say this land is not any one
culture's land
in particular well i'll tell you what it
means
it's the end game to cultural genocide
and the genocide the culture that's
being wiped out here
isn't german culture and isn't british
culture and
isn't chinese culture either each of
those cultures has its own homeland
that's doing just fine
preserving its own language literature
philosophy
and customs the culture that's being
wiped out in the midst of all this
the rise and fall of neoliberal economic
ideology
is indeed first nations indigenous
culture
and if any of you watching this video if
you actually subscribe to
ethnonationalism
if you actually believe the words that
faith j goldie is preaching
look inside your hearts and ask yourself
how you would feel
if you were in one of these marginalized
cultures that now
really is looking forward to the
possibility of going extinct
in the century ahead
[Music]
uh
[Applause]
dad